hey welcome to singing koukin Sanjeev
Kapoor is khazana and my name is her Pal
Singh today I am going to share a
beautiful recipe with you a lot of
people have requested me chef why don't
you share your traditional restaurant
style mutton rogan Russia although
Kashmiri mutton rogan josh is something
with the Kashmiri cook with great
passion and is not what is served in the
restaurants mind you in restaurants we
have a recipe with all shapes across the
world have kind of tempered the way I am
doing it today is one of the
best-selling restaurant recipes of
Sanjeev Kapoor's restaurants and that's
where I am working for you know he's my
mentor also and from whom we have
learned a lot of good things and here is
the beautiful recipe oil is hot we've
got some whole spices cinnamon clubs
five to six clubs big cardamom bay leaf
two of them all into this oil is nice
and hot
onions equal quantity of onions if you
are using 1 kg of cotton you need to use
1 kg of sliced onions and that's a very
important part of the recipe and you
need to brown this onions while this
onions get brown let me also share with
you what exactly a Kashmiri Rogan Josh
is another Wasa's as the cooks of
Kashmir are known the visage and vast
ones they are very passionate about
cooking meat traditionally in Kashmir
they use a ingredient called rotten joke
which gives a beautiful red color to the
mutton roma juice and it's cooked in
mustard oil mind you with lot of
asafoetida they keep heating the mustard
oil and keep adding the asafoetida and
the fennel powder first report' they add
the mutton
so asafoetida and fennel powder and then
they marvel
and the ginger-garlic paste are added in
Kashmiri Rogan juice and it's very very
dry unlike what we see in restaurants me
in restaurants we see nice red thick
beautiful rich gravy made out of button
stock and mutton cooked in it with
Kashmiri chilies and that's what I'm
sharing with you today lot of people on
the internet have requested me that chef
why don't you share one of your
traditional mutton rogan juice recipes
this is what I am doing the onions are
now made where to Brown in keep stirring
in between so that they get evenly
colored and you need to be watchful
onions need to be just golden brown and
not be brown because if they are browned
more than what is required you get a
burnt flavor so golden brown is the
color and you need to keep stirring
continuously to get that color also
uniformly and it's also very important
that when you do dishes like this and
you want the onions to be brown the
onions need to be sliced finely and when
it is sliced finally which means you
need to have a good sharp knife be
careful about your fingers there the
onions now as you see are nice and chest
prompt the color that I require and at
this point of time the onions are nice
and sweet so we need to quickly add
ginger-garlic paste the garlic paste 1
tablespoon and the ginger paste 1
tablespoon of this
to this I'm going to add my button I'll
brace the button for some time for about
two to three minutes till the time it's
evenly colored and then we'll add some
water and cook until the button is nice
and soft in the restaurant style mutton
rogan juice that I do I keep it plain
and simple very less spices the gravy
needs to be nice and rich instead of
water you could add stock if you are
cooking in your restaurants you know the
stock could be of Trotters or chicken
bones now the button as you see is now
little brown what I'm going to do now is
add some water since I don't have stock
at this point of time and even at homes
I am sure we all don't use mutton stock
so water enough to cook the mutton at
this point of time I'll add some salt
also
taste as much as you require give a
gentle stir what do you need to do is
cover and cook until the mutton is soft
which is almost more than 80% of the
mutton scoop then we will add the rest
of the ingredients so what I'm going to
do cover and cook this would take about
20 to 25 minutes and mutton would be
just about done that's the time we will
add the rest of the spices so let us now
check the mutton Oh ice color the brown
onions I have given a good color to the
gravy the mutton is almost there now so
let us have the spices I keep it very
simple
when I cook mutton rogan juice in my
restaurant and I'm going to create trick
that I do in my restaurants I use
Kashmiri chilli powder and I add water
first before adding it to the gravy
directly I never added directly because
you know psychically it said all the
oils get blended with the water there
are a few chili powders in India which
add not of color but they are not spicy
hot one of them is Kashmiri chilli
powder the other one that I know is made
get chilli does not add too much of
spice but adds a lot of color here of
course it's the gravy that is getting
cooked but if you were to add the
chillies directly they would get burnt
very important to mix it with little
water and that's the trick into the
Rogan Josh nice red color I've got some
fennel powder half a teaspoon I've also
got some ginger powder half a teaspoon
of ginger powder mix this up thoroughly
you see the nice red colour that's
coming that's come through the red
chilli that I have used you see suddenly
the colour has erupted in the Rogan
juice beautiful colour finally some
brisk yogurt 1/2 a cup of RISP yogurt I
do not add tomatoes at all in my grave
and
Rogan Josh in my response sells like
hotcakes and this is what the trick is I
also prefer straining the gravy after
cooking the mutton it gives a nice good
shame to the gravy you know the
beautiful shine but if you are cooking
at home never mind
you could serve it directly like this to
your guests
so let's cook this for 10 more minutes
for the gravy to be nice and thick 10
minutes of cooking along with the yogurt
and spices button is now ready to be
served
what a bowl here see the color beautiful
color you get from Kashmiri chilli that
I've used but in this book the best
thing of cooking a mutton is it should
be buttery you know and if it is not
cook well
then you never enjoy it the place that I
have learnt my food from hide the bud
people always say that you should be
able to choose the mutton but in Lucknow
they say the mutton should be soft as
butter so in India all over people have
different you know their sayings and
feelings about dishes but I feel mutton
should be buttery in a Roven jours nice
and soft mutton rogan Joe's for millions
of my users who are being searching for
this recipe and have requested this
recipe number of times that's why I
thought best to share this recipe with
y'all this is how we cook in our
restaurants you try in your restaurants
or at your home and enjoy this with long
grain basmati rice or a good food in a
paratha beautiful just for you mutton
oven douche
you